Aug 2022
 - looking at clouds
 - Bedir's thesis
 - mom often in my mind
 - gout, oxford:disneyland, nserc, retirement, soccer
 - charlton and best didn't talk/pass to each other: Man U

Jul 2022
- sitting in back yard watching cats :)
- recap: knee injury worse, can't walk! hobbling, physio, awesome:
  gout+knee injury, gout under control, diet started (down 2 pounds),
  will no longer eat dinner, 

- L down east to visit Nancy, driver's license expired, all's well that ends well
- saw dad 2 days then picked up Em at K, 3 days E+R+dad, went better than expected,
  D has awesome care aid, he's in good hands, 
  ideal is when they let him sleep until 11, I come by then
  (once with me, once with me/Em out to lunch, toileting before we leave)
  sad when I leave, but because I don't like being far from DAE when they need me
- visit dad about 8 days/month, but takes up about 2 weeks/month of my energy
- challenge is finding work/family balance
- satisfying trip with dad, long drive back, exhausted, L not happy I don't eat dinner

- retire? reapply for grant?  
  MM will pay for grad students :)  will help with grant app
  problem: I still can't be bothered to read (ADHD?)
  mathematician's dream: work on math problems, but don't write them up
- fall semester? how to lesson my work load

Tana French

memory from Jun 2021 on my laptop

* letter to G, memories of mom, presence now gone, 
  she got me, G got me, others don't

---------------- Jun 2022

* from do-over last day of visit with dad:

"how's the family?   [my usual answer updating A E L]

"and the rest of the world, to hell with it,
your 1st report was the important one"

...

"they're all doing well, that's fantastic"

...

"what am I doing now?"  you're resting before lunch
"I'm resting before lunch?"  yeah, how does that sound?
[smile spreads across his face]
"that sounds pretty good ... I'm a lucky guy"

...

"strange how the world has developed, there's still fighting going on,
if there weren't fighting going on, we could live in peace"

"I'm lying in bed, warm and comfortable, couldn't ask for more"

...

I reminded dad that recently he had gone with O to see J's new foal
took him a while, but then his face transformed:
" .... oh yeaaaaahhhhhhhhh, the foal ... "

when I reminded dad

* June 22 2022
saw dad, stayed at O's, nice day, sunny, cats, gardening,
1st conference in a while, tired of driving, meddlesome cyclist,
todo: email friends, wasn't as lonely on my return this time,
prob bec living downstairs to bro and spouse for 5 nights
(plus he made me a bday cake)

* May 10, plan: 3 years, my agenda, polish 355, take it on a world tour :)
books Marcus (in the beginning was logos), Susan Juby Mindful of Murder,
Nita Prose The Maid, summer project clobber, hex, summer trip Oxford (DK?),
brunch in the heritage lounge: a dead place, chatting with Ken (move 355 time),
  

* May 2
  https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2022/may/02/life-oversharing-costs-thrill-privacy-social-media-journalism

* Apr 12
    oso, classes, mom, nserc, Liz's aunt nancy, clobber, dim sum
    Ann Karsen
    Don's wife died
    hole in the firmament:  untethered
    feeling welcome

* March 9: holy cow
  - Russia, truckers, 
  - physical exam: McPeak
       * keep your head over your feet
         Marcus Aurelius meditations
       * learn not to worry about stuff you can't control

Nov 16, 2021
* back from Oso, back from Jasper,
  water bottle saga
  zen moment in the sunny room with dad, felt like home
  the Oso drive: radio, now book on CD
  winter tires on old car,
  big snow today,
  starting class prep for next term,
  soccer Sunday morning: fantastic goal ...
  dad: M3, M2B, M1 ...

talking about ritual: ritual of calling mom/dad weekly

Sept 21, 2021
* back from Oso...
* shift from mom to dad

Earlier (August?)

says "not many people are good both emotionally and intellectually
at what they need to do
--------------------

next
--- photos discovered in 2021 in NZ show
    last movements of one who died in avalanche
    24 years ago... when his partner saw them,
    "discombobulating" to be taken back to that point
    in time... like me when reading letters this summer
    that my mom had kept (why the label? Ryan's personal)
    from an old flame
    (why did she label them that way? what did she think about them?
     I can see why she wanted my stuff cleared out of the house,
    why did she not ask me to collect them earlier?
    she did return some artwork of the girls when they were
    very small... this made Em cry... did she know she was
    getting near the end? or was she just tidying up?
    probably both... we're all getting near the end each day)

from the Guardian:
His older sister Chris Schiesser says it has been a strange rollercoaster of emotion seeing the pictures from the past.

“Anything that comes to you once someone has passed … that comes to you from beyond the grave, it’s a bit of a gift,” she says. “It’s a wonderful new bit of them.

“At the same time I’m thinking, oh my god, that’ll have been taken the day before he died and he’d have had no idea. So it’s been hugely emotional but also wonderful.”
-----------
Aug 24
- dazed and confused:
   phase 1: child - adult
   phase 2: children
   phase 3: no parent(s) ... now what
-  big trip: Revelstoke-Oso-Hope-Vic-Vanc-Oso-Oso-Golden-home
     lockdown, Em's gut problems
-  now what ?
   - grant application, annual report, class notes, plus
     visits to Oso

- maybe you should talk to someone
    - best therapist: you feel felt
    - loneliness
    - soccer, dim sum

one of the things that we come to every session:
the loss of my mother/anchor
: as close as I was to my mom, I took her for granted;
her death was so unexpected.

pain vs suffering...

how long until I can think about my parents with pleasure...

when do I plan to retire... ?

------------
July 21

* starts 9:45 *Vancouver* time :)

- packing up the house

- dim sum

- how to replace what I got from my mom?

- did i expect too much from my relationships with women

- talk to a lawyer (can be incentive to renegotiate, if possible)

(legend in the UC, at a general council:
1st wife had been married to a gay man, 2 children,
then married to a straight man, 0 children,
then she left him, then he went into therapy)

----------------------
session 4?: in Burnaby

next session: July 6 2021

whazzup: tomorrow leave for final clearout session (visit dad on way)

burnaby: the letter, working thru that

Joni Mitchell's song blue:
working thru
(Graham Nash, James Taylor, are still in love with her)

it's been great, but I won't see you later

it's like a death, ... they become dead to you (but they aren't dead)

parallel wrt mom's death: 

important to see people die

Gwen, being dumped, the doc who listened to me for 45 min, my dad,

how to be a therapist:
  session1: context
   then hypothesize
   then form open-ended questions
   is there a book? a set of books?

  book that got Don started, turned him on:
    generation to generation by Edwin Friedman (former rabbi)

  interesting that I didn't become a therapist ...

------------
session 3:
* Emily
* connected but distant: her choice? my choice?
* review how things are going
it is a real minefield: what are the insurance companies going to accept?

emotional intelligence

mom was being brutally honest about the fact
that he had left her in some sense

poignant: well, I will miss you

divorce

pregnant, dad does not want to shower

-----------------
session 1 and 2

* left home fall 1977, transfer to Queens

* 10 schools in 12 years, 
Vancouver until fall 65, 
Winnipeg until december 67, 
Lethbridge until december 74, 
Vancouver (not Leth) until fall 77,
Queens/Kingston 8 months, Vancouver summer
Grenoble/France 8 months, Vancouver summer
Queens/Kingston 3 more years (BSc/MSc),
McGill/Montreal 4 years (4 month Paris in 84),
fall 86 3 years NJ,
1 year Bonn,
2 years Queens,
7 years Lethbridge,
since 99 UAlberta/Edmonton

so left home fall 77 age 19
(hated conflict between parents and brother)
(Jan 68, new school, gave us the chance to skip a grade,
I said no - sports - O said yes :(
... tired of being R's little brother, became the anti-brother...
behaviour, school, drinking etc)

so mom was loving but narrow-minded...
even as a child, was always a little bit different,
didn't fit in and behave "normally" like everyone else

malpractice at her 2nd birth (nurses were trying to force
the baby back in because the doctor wasn't there yet),
post-partum depression,
diagnosed with schizophrenia (?)... now considered a misdiagnosis,
ended up in mental hospital, electro-shock...
grandmother came to our house to care for us for a while,
I have little memory of this (Grandma looking
in the cupboard and asking me how my mom made supper...
was she asking what I liked for supper?
I'm guessing no one talked to me about this?)

when I was 6 coming home from school threw a rock
and hit a girl on the head, 
mom beat me black and blue and dragged me over to
the neighbour to apologize... I remember the neighbour's
mom looking at me with sympathy, I think that she realized
that my injuries were --- happily,
I think that mom and I were both worried
that I might have injured her  --- more severe than her daughters.

mom hit us with a wooden spoon, dad hit us with a belt

why I miss my mom: she was always interested in what I was doing,
curious


chatting with Don: Friedman,    Generation
congegration as family

therapy is hearing yourself telling the stories that are important to you.

there is a strength in my choice to be connected but distant
