I did not get much done this year either, but some...
crazy hard fall, with teaching 2 large classes online the uni giving us no extra time to prepare,
all the while the govt appointed board and president are in the process of reducing our operating
budget by 15%... they are not just cost-cutting, they are malicious, they
refuse to allow us to use alumni donations to replace their cuts, they just want to shrink
the university system (as part of their plan to cut health care and education...
a pox on all their houses

been over a year now since my dad had the big stroke in his cerebellum...
amazingly he made some small recoveries, but his shortterm memory is gone,
and my mom does not want to put him in a home, but she is slowly getting worn
down, be interesting to see how that plays out

meanwhile my brother is moving from Vancouver to Penticton... he seems to be doing ok...
the girls are both in Vancouver with their partners, neither has had the virus yet
(although Annie is frequently ill and has been tested 4 times), 

happily this semester should be lighter, 1 grad course with 15 students,
I will probably spend half of January talking to students from last term
about their final exam, explaining that yes it was challenging,
and no I'm going to give them anymore marks...
my first semester of teaching online, I was too lenient at the beginning,
I should have made the course harder at the beginning, next time...

Liz did not want to take any chances so stopped working at the bookstore in April,
she does a bit for them from home (managing newsletter e.g.)...
her mom died of covid in the summer, she had had dementia for many years
but it was still hard... Liz saw her for a while a few hours before she passed,
had to get dressed in the hazmat suit

Liz got two cats in April to help cope... happily I'm not as allergic as I thought I might be,
but I do keep them mostly out of the basement (where I watch EPL on dazn.com)
and my bedroom.

that's about it. can't wait to start travelling again, at least to get out of Alberta
and leave behind all these crazy people who think that shopping in malls
during a pandemic is ok because they probably won't die

my weekly kickaround went on most of the summer, but I'm not risking playing indoors,
and now it's been shutdown.  so walking is it for me.
time to learn how to eat less.

I think of Kingston every once in a while. Liz's friend Christine lives there.

stay well
R
